## 2) What is FACstamp in a technical context?
Technically, FACstamp is a digital signature applied to digital content.  The digital content can be text, audio, or video.  The digital content can contained/delivered by an existing platform or application, and contained within other content as long the boundary of what is FACstamped and what is not is clearly and unambiguously delineated.  Printed copies of text based digital content can also contain a FACstamp digital signature, the same signature as the original digital content, provided the the process of making the printed reproduction does not materially alter the digital content.  The stamped content can be generated in/by mainstream media, social media, or any type of digital data collection.

Two technical details of interest: 1) FACstamps are stored in a distributed Merkle Tree (blockchain like) database; and 2) FACstamps also are stored in a directed acyclic graph w.r.t. FACstamp references, enabling live FACid and FACstamp provenance status queries.
## 3) Provenance of FACstamp Producers
Regarding the provenance of the person creating/providing FACstamped content, the  creator/producer needs to obtain a FACID prior to obtaining a FACstamp license.  A FACID is a digital identification of a specific human being.  Only human beings can obtain a FACID and hence sign and obtain a FACstamp license agreement.

FACID's have strong boundaries of anonymity, partial identification, as well as full identity.  And within these operational boundaries, a FACID is tied to voter registration in terms of name and address.  Note that corporations, governments, and AI implementations can neither obtain a FACID nor stamp content with a FACstamp.  However, it is possible for a group of FACIDs to sign a AI FACstamp License Agreement allowing for AI generated content to be digitally stamped in an analogous manner via an AI Expressed Warranty of Merchantability.
## 4) FACstamp Usage by the General Public
The general public can use and leverage FACstamps without signing any FACstamp license agreement.  However, as FACstamps come with an expressed warranty of fitness-for-use, to initiate a warranty claim against a specific FACstamp requires a FACID.

