The FACstamp fitness-for-use warranty includes two basic definitions.  The second requirement concerns how the FACstamped content is delivered \- it is the ‘how’ or ‘quality’ requirement, as opposed to [[Requirement 1 - Historical Accuracy]] which is an historical accuracy ‘the what’ requirement.

The delivery of FACstamped content must be done in a responsible, virtuous manner that excludes such attributes or rhetorical techniques such as othering, context shifting, fallacious logic, and other methods of non-virtuous [demagoguery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demagogue).  Non-virtuous demagoguery is the opposite in both intent and impact of [virtuous demagoguery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demagogue#Positive_demagoguery).  Demagoguery can be virtuous when aligned with a robust rationale, is love centered and absent of evil, vicious, or unvirtuous intent.  Virtuous demagoguery prioritizes our common humanity and the common good of the world clearly above the individual self or the group collective which is generating/motivating the demagoguery.

FACstamp’ed Content is to be delivered in a responsible manner as defined by the following conditions:

1. That the US fairness doctrine as originally written is followed ( [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FCC\_fairness\_doctrine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FCC_fairness_doctrine))  
2. That no person or group is [othered](https://www.verywellmind.com/what-is-othering-5084425#:~:text=Othering%20is%20a%20way%20of,prejudices%20against%20people%20and%20groups.), [dehumanized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dehumanization), or publicly shamed ([https://brenebrown.com/articles/2018/05/17/dehumanizing-always-starts-with-language](https://brenebrown.com/articles/2018/05/17/dehumanizing-always-starts-with-language)) \- though calling-out past/historical actions, deeds, and statements is not an instance of warranty non-compliance.  
3. That people are called-in (not othered, not ostracized, not de-humanized, not shamed) even if/when their actions are called-out ([https://diversity.tufts.edu/resources/interrupting-bias-calling-out-vs-calling-in](https://diversity.tufts.edu/resources/interrupting-bias-calling-out-vs-calling-in)) as bad, violent, evil, harming, etc.  The respect for the inherent humanity and divinity of all sentient beings is respected even in the case of hideous or violent actions.  News and information that describes hideous, evil, or violent actions are to be purveyed in a responsible manner.  
4. That the Context of the Content is not substantially altered, fabricated, or omitted in a way that alters the Content or its FIT or KS sub categorization, or the perception, meaning, or appearance of the Content.  This is referred to as the no Context-Shifting clause.  For example, omitting substantial or important words or sentences of a quote is an example of altering the Context of the Content.  Omitting the information that a scientific study is flawed due to confirmation bias or other logical or scientific flaws or contextual inaccuracies is also considered Context Shifting.  Context Shifting needs to be clearly declared within the content prior to use.  
5. Indirect Context Shifting is also prohibited when not clearly declared in the content prior to use.  Indirect Context Shifting includes changing the currently understood definitions, understandings, or meanings of words and phrases without clear in-context disclosure within the content that the meaning has been shifted.  An example is the 2016 IHRA re-definition of antisemitism to include any anti-Israel position while the preceding definition did not.  This shifts the definition of antisemitism to include for example non-violent free speech and virtuous debate regarding Israeli political and other positions, redefining anything that is anti Israel to be antisemitic.  Orwellian double-speak also falls into this category.  Examples that have become embedded in the current culture, implying that they can be legitimately FACstamped as is, are “pro life” (how can a pro abortion proponent not be pro life?) and “pro choice” (how can an anti abortion proponent not be pro choice?). Indirect Context Shifting needs to be clearly declared within the content prior to use.  
6. Another form of Indirect Context Shifting that is prohibited when not clearly declared in the Content prior to use is “Weaponization by Simplification”.  Weaponization by Simplification occurs when for example a multi word phrase is shortened to make opposition or acceptance of the shortened phrase either non virtuous, illogical, dubious, or even evil, violent, or hateful.   An example is the demagogic phrase “government is bad’ or ‘government is the problem’ \- the non demagogic originating position is that ‘bad government is bad’ since ‘good government is good’.  The weaponization by simplification via the removal of the adjective ‘bad’ is an exclusion of critical discernment by the Consumer.  To be FACstamped Content with Weaponization by Simplification needs to declare the Context Shifting prior to use.  
7. The placement of advertising or other content that does not contain an equivalent FACstamp within the lexical boundary of the Content may be prohibited (TBD) as it can alter the Context of the Content via the addition of non FACstamp compliant news and information.  
8. That the Licensee oaths that they will not knowingly or deliberately lie, gaslight, other, or otherwise bamboozle the Consumer.  The various [Methods of demagoguery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demagogue#Methods) are called out and excluded.  

The How Requirement is softer in precision than the What Requirement as it involves continual evaluation of the nuanced communication and cultural contexts and styles within which the Content is being delivered.  The general idea is that the innate dignity and value of a human being is honored even while calling-out the potential violent, evil, and/or illegal actions via the Content.  Sometimes this methodology is described as ‘the third way’ \- neither returning evil for evil nor succumbing to it nor ignoring it.  The intent of the How Requirement is to discern and prevent narcissistically egoic, greedy, or hateful Content delivery cosplaying as virtuous Content delivery.  The How requirement builds community across diverse interpretations of news and information.

It is also important to note that both requirements are an integral and integrated part of the Warranty Claim Process.  When a Content Consumer files a fitness-for-use warranty claim against a Content Producer/Purveyor, the FACstamp arbitration process is grounded in both requirements: the Consumer and the Producer via their respective license agreements have agreed to act in a virtuous manner while jointly pursuing the historical accuracy of the questioned Content.

### See Also
[[Requirement 1 - Historical Accuracy]]
[[FACstamp Deeper Dive]]
[[FACstamp Introduction]]
[[FACstamp Pitch]]
[[FACIDs]]
[[Welcome]]
